hi I'm Barney from the good food cookery
team and here I'm going to show you how
to French trim a rack of lamb and then
I'm gonna run you through a few other
cuts you get from the rack I've got a
whole rack of lamb this is a beautiful
cut that sometimes called best end or
best end of neck this is what it looks
like untrimmed
but for neat presentation or for neater
chops or cutlets you need to trim off
the top layer of fat here's one I
prepared earlier it's been beautifully
French trimmed so as you can see the
bones have been exposed and they've been
cleaned so this is what we're trying to
get to first we need to cut the fat away
from the bones but still leaving a layer
of fat over the eye of the meat so the
way to do this is to make a notch at
either end
about four centimeters down from the top
of the bone so make a notch here then
just join the two together so one cut
going down against the bone and then
working in a sweeping movement against
the bone we're just going to trim a fat
off to expose the bones so now I've
exposed the bone I just need to clean
them up so we're just going to cut away
any excess fat and then we're going to
cut out the meat from between each of
the bones this is where it's
particularly important to use a short
stubby boning knife because the knife
needs to be solid and not flexible so
you can really cut against the bones and
then what we're going to do is just cut
between each of the bones let's remove
this thin bit of meat and this is where
you can really start seeing the rack
taking shape just carry on between all
eight bones so now it's just the matter
of using the knife against the bone and
just scraping off
the meat and fat from each bone now all
the bones are clean what we've got left
to do is we just want to remove this
layer of skin from the layer of fat
that's covering the eye of the meat just
need to cut that away but it should come
away quite easily in your fingers or in
your hands just need to ease it with a
knife
that just exposes the white fat just
peeling it away as you cut and we just
cut it off at the end and there we have
our rack of lamb French trimmed and
ready to roast now that's the whole rack
and next I'm going to show you how to
cut it into chops so there's a tough
tendon called the paddywhack which you
just want to cut away now cutting it
into chops couldn't be any easier you
just cut between the bones there you
have lovely lamb chops with a nice layer
of fat or if you want them extra trend
you can remove this layer of fat it's
just like we did before just to expose
the eye of the meat then you cut your
chops really thick so it's kind of like
a double chop and then you're just left
with a chop which has the eye of the
meat which you want to squash down and
these chops are now being called
lollipops so they're just trim this meat
up we've got lots of ways to French trim
and butcher a rack of lamb